Updated workflow example (#22)
canonical/praecepta: getting-started.md

# Introduction to Vale rule development

The goal of this guide is to provide pointers and distil existing resources for anyone who is new to Vale rules. While it is not an in-depth tutorial, it aims to accompany you through installing and understanding Vale enough to create your first rules.

## Overview
* [Install the Vale CLI tool](#install-the-vale-cli-tool)
* [Develop a rule](#develop-a-rule)
  * [Basics](#basics)
* [Regex](#regex)
* [Test rules](#test-rules)
  * [Test all rules](#test-all-rules)
  * [Test a specific rule](#test-a-specific-rule)
* [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

> ## Install the Vale CLI tool

Reviewer: I also do the same. It's partly because I do a lot of docs in rST where it's required, but also for readability.

The Vale CLI tool is the software that will let you run Vale rules on any file in your local environment. This is how you can test your rule's behavior while you develop it.

To install the Vale CLI tool, see the [installation guide](https://vale.sh/docs/vale-cli/installation/). To summarize:

- **For Windows and MacOS**, the easiest option is through the [package managers](https://vale.sh/docs/vale-cli/installation/#package-managers).

- **For Linux**, the easiest option depends on whether or not you have Docker. (Check with `docker -v`)
  * If you do, then you just have to [pull the container](https://vale.sh/docs/vale-cli/installation/#docker).

>   * If you **don't**, the best option is to download the pre-compiled binaries from [Vale's GitHub releases](https://vale.sh/docs/vale-cli/installation/#github-releases). Installing Docker just for Vale is not worth the hassle.

Author: Good point.

## Develop a rule
To develop a rule, you don't have to worry about setting up a particular environment or `vale.ini` configuration - all you need an editor and this repository.

> ### Basics
> First, clone the repository if you haven't already.
> ```shell
> git clone git@github.com:canonical/praecepta.git
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Basics

First, clone the repository if you haven't already.

```shell
git clone git@github.com:canonical/praecepta.git
```
```

> Each rule is one file in the `styles/Canonical` directory. To create a new rule, add a `.yml` file and name it roughly according to the convention you see in the other files: `000-Subject-brief-description.yml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each rule is one file in the `styles/Canonical` directory. To create a new rule, add a `.yml` file and name it according to the convention you see in the other files: `000-Subject-brief-description.yml`.
```

Reviewer: Would it also be worth putting an example here?

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Vale rules only work with the extension **`.yml`**. They will not work with `.yaml`.

> Vale has its own key/value convention for defining rule parameters. As an example, here is a simple rule that prints a message whenever it finds the words "gonna" and "gotta":

Reviewer 2: blank line after this

```yaml
extends: existence
message: "Do not use the contraction '%s'"
level: warning
tokens:
  - gonna
  - gotta

> ```

Reviewer 2: blank line

The **`extends`** key defines the type of search to perform. This is called an "[extension point](https://vale.sh/docs/topics/styles/#extension-points)".

> The extension value '`existence`' checks whether certain tokens exist. If a match is found, Vale will throw a warning and return our message.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what a token is?

A similar extension point is '`substitution`', but this one lets you define an alternative word to suggest to the user. For this extension point, you would use the **`swap`** key instead to map your tokens in the form of `wrong: right`, like in [this example](https://vale.sh/docs/topics/styles/#substitution).

> There are several other extensions, each with a particular set of keys to help fine-tune the logic of the search and actions it takes.

Reviewer: "actions it takes" -> I'm not clear on what 'it' refers to here

You can now use the [documentation](https://vale.sh/docs/topics/styles/#extension-points) to find the extension point that best suits your rule, and see what parameters it requires.

### Resources
* Rule examples: 
  * [github.com/testthedocs](https://github.com/testthedocs/vale-styles/tree/master/ttd-light)
  * [github.com/errata-ai/vale](https://github.com/errata-ai/vale/tree/v3/testdata/styles)

* Documentation:

>   * In general, the two most useful pages from the official Vale documentation for rule development are the [Styles](https://vale.sh/docs/topics/scoping/) and [Scoping](https://vale.sh/docs/topics/scoping/) references.

Reviewer 2: wrong link for Styles

## Regex
Sometimes you'll need to search for specific patterns, expressions, or symbols instead of single words. This is where regular expressions come in.

> For example, to search for the expression "Not only ...but also", you can define a token that will capture this regardless of what is in between. 
> ```yaml
> tokens:
>   - 'not only.*?but also'
> ```
> The single quotes indicate the beginning and end of the regex, and the `.*?` quantifier indicates that any characters are allowed in between when looking for matches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to search for the expression "Not only ...but also", you can define a token that will capture this regardless of what is in between. 

```yaml
tokens:
  - 'not only.*?but also'
```

The single quotes indicate the beginning and end of the regex, and the `.*?` quantifier indicates that any characters are allowed in between when looking for matches.
```

### Resources
- [Interactive regex tutorial](https://regexone.com/): Great for  beginners
- [Regex editor](https://regex101.com/): Online tool that helps you compose and test your expressions. I like how it highlights capture groups in different colors.

> - Before composing an insane regex, remember to check for [existing rules](#more-rule-examples) that migh've done this already. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Before composing a complicated regex, remember to check for [existing rules](#more-rule-examples) that might have done this already. 
```

## Test rules
Create a file in the root directory of the repository and fill it with text that you expect your rule to catch. It can be in any text format (`.txt`, `.md`, `.rst`...)

Besides the text file, the `vale` command needs a `vale.ini` config file. This file already exists in the root folder `praecepta/`. Vale will automatically find the `vale.ini` if you run the command in the same directory.

### Test all rules
To apply all the rules inside `styles/Canonical` at the same time, run `vale <file>` in the root directory `praecepta/`.

Example:
```shell
vale test.md
```

### Test a specific rule
To limit the test to a specific rule, you have to modify the `vale.ini` config file's [style specification](https://vale.sh/docs/topics/config/#basedonstyles).

The default config specifies `BasedOnStyles = Canonical`, which will test all rules in that folder.

Comment that line out and add a line enabling your rule using the syntax `<style>.<rule> = <YES | NO>`

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> This edit would look similar to the output below:
> ```ini

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This edit would look similar to the output below:

```ini
```

; BasedOnStyles = Canonical
Canonical.000-My-Rule = YES
```

Once it is saved, you can run the command `vale <file>` in the root directory `praecepta/`.

Example:
```shell
vale test.md
```
in the root directory `praecepta/`.

### Resources
* [Configuration documentation](https://vale.sh/docs/topics/config/#basedonstyles) -  make your own `vale.ini` file(s) with specific configs for your tests
* Run `vale -h` to see optional parameters like output style and config path.

## Troubleshooting

> ### My rule isn't getting applied to the text

Reviewer: Since you've only got one point under the troubleshooting, a level 3 subheading feels a bit redundant (it would be fine just as text)

Author: I originally added it so that it would appear in the ToC, but I think you're right - just one "Troubleshooting" heading is enough for you to see where to go if your rule ain't working.

# Introduction to Vale rule development

> The goal of this guide is to provide pointers and distil existing resources for anyone who is new to Vale rules. While it is not an in-depth tutorial, it aims to accompany you through installing and understanding Vale enough to create your first rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal of this guide is to curate existing resources and provide pointers for anyone who is new to Vale rules. While it is not an in-depth tutorial, it aims to help you through installing and understanding Vale enough to create your first rules.
```

## Overview
* [Install the Vale CLI tool](#install-the-vale-cli-tool)
* [Develop a rule](#develop-a-rule)
  * [Basics](#basics)
* [Regex](#regex)
* [Test rules](#test-rules)
  * [Test all rules](#test-all-rules)
  * [Test a specific rule](#test-a-specific-rule)
* [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

## Install the Vale CLI tool

The Vale CLI tool is the software that can apply Vale rules on any file in your local environment. This is how you can test your rule's behaviour while you develop it.

To install the Vale CLI tool, see the [installation guide](https://vale.sh/docs/vale-cli/installation/). To summarize:

- **For Windows and MacOS**, the easiest option is through the [package managers](https://vale.sh/docs/vale-cli/installation/#package-managers).

> - **For Linux**, the easiest option depends on whether or not you have Docker. (Check with `docker -v`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **For Linux**, the easiest option depends on whether or not you have Docker (run `docker -v` to check if Docker is installed).
```

### Test all rules

To apply all the rules inside `styles/Canonical` at the same time, run `vale <file>` in the root directory `praecepta/`.

For example:

```shell
vale test.md
```

### Test a specific rule

To limit the test to a specific rule, you have to modify the `vale.ini` config file's [style specification](https://vale.sh/docs/topics/config/#basedonstyles).

The default config specifies `BasedOnStyles = Canonical`, which will test all rules in that folder.

Comment that line out and add a line enabling your rule using the syntax `<style>.<rule> = <YES | NO>`

This edit would look similar to the snippet below:

```ini
; BasedOnStyles = Canonical
Canonical.000-My-Rule = YES
```

Once it is saved, you can run the command `vale <file>` in the root directory `praecepta/`.

For example:

```shell
vale test.md
```

in the root directory `praecepta/`.

### Resources

* [Configuration documentation](https://vale.sh/docs/topics/config/#basedonstyles) -  make your own `vale.ini` file(s) with specific configs for your tests
* Run `vale -h` to see optional parameters like output style and config path.

> ## Troubleshooting
> **My rule isn't getting applied to the text**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Troubleshooting

**My rule isn't getting applied to the text**
```
